OSDOCS-4521:RNs bug batch (#54113)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-12-release-notes.adoc

For more information about deployment specifications for MetalLB, see xref:../networking/metallb/metallb-operator-install.adoc#nw-metallb-operator-deployment-specifications-for-metallb_metallb-operator-install[Deployment specifications for MetalLB].

[id="overriding-default-node-ip-selection-logic"]
==== Node IP selection improvements

Previously, the `nodeip-configuration` service on a cluster host selected the IP address from the interface that the default route used. If multiple routes were present, the service would select the route with the lowest metric value. As a result, network traffic could be distributed from the incorrect interface.

With {product-title} 4.12, a new interface has been added to the `nodeip-configuration` service, which allows users to create a hint file. The hint file contains a variable, `NODEIP_HINT`, that overrides the default IP selection logic and selects a specific node IP address from the subnet `NODEIP_HINT` variable. Using the `NODEIP_HINT` variable allows users to specify which IP address is used, ensuring that network traffic is distributed from the correct interface.

> For more information, see xref:../support/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-network-issues.html#overriding-default-node-ip-selection-logic_troubleshooting-network-issues[Optional: Overriding the default node IP selection logic].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:../support/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-network-issues.adoc#overriding-default-node-ip-selection-logic_troubleshooting-network-issues[Optional: Overriding the default node IP selection logic].
```

[id="ocp-4-12-networking-bug-fixes"]
==== Networking

> * Previously, routers left in the terminating state delayed the `oc cp` command, which delayed the must gather until the terminating pod was terminated. With this update, a timeout is set for each `oc cp` command resulting in the must gathers not being delayed by terminating pods. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2103283[*BZ#2103283*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, routers that were in the terminating state delayed the `oc cp` command which would delay the `oc adm must-gather` command until the pod was terminated. With this update, a timeout for each issued `oc cp` command is set to prevent delaying the `must-gather` command from running. As a result, terminating pods no longer delay `must-gather` commands. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2103283[*BZ#2103283*])
```

> * Previously, the IngressController could not be configured with `Private` endpoint publishing strategy and PROXY protocol. With this update, users can now configure an IngressController with both the `Private` endpoint publishing strategy type and PROXY protocol. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2104481[*BZ#2104481*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, an Ingress Controller could not be configured with both the `Private` endpoint publishing strategy stype and PROXY protocol. With this update, users can now configure an Ingress Controller with both the `Private` endpoint publishing strategy type and PROXY protocol. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2104481[*BZ#2104481*])
```

> * Previously, there was a race condition that after a `routeSelector` update caused the ingress controller to clear the route status before the router deployment finished rolling out. This resulted in the status being incorrectly repopulated. With this update, route status is consistently cleared with a `routeSelector` update. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1962502[*BZ#1962502*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the `routeSelector` parameter cleared the route status of the Ingress Controller prior to the router deployment. Because of this, the route status repopulated incorrectly. To avoid using stale data, route status detection has been updated to no longer rely on the Kubernetes object cache. Additionally, this update includes a fix to check the generation ID on route deployment in order to determine the route status. As a result, the route status is consistently cleared with a `routeSelector` update. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2101878[*BZ#2101878*])
```

> * Previously, a cluster that was upgraded from a version of {product-title} earlier than 4.8 could have `orphaned` `Route` objects. This is caused by earlier versions of {product-title} translating `Ingress` objects into `Route` objects irrespective of a given `Ingress` object’s indicated `IngressClass`. With this update, an administrator is made aware of `Ingress` objects that do not specify an `IngressClass` and `Route` objects that have been orphaned through an alert. The alert notifies administrators about any `orphaned` `Route` objects and any `Ingress` objects that do not specify any `IngressClass`. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1962502[*BZ#1962502*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, a cluster that was upgraded from a version of {product-title} earlier than 4.8 could have `orphaned` `Route` objects. This is caused by earlier versions of {product-title} translating `Ingress` objects into `Route` objects irrespective of a given `Ingress` object's indicated `IngressClass`. With this update, an alert is sent to the cluster administrator about any orphaned Route objects still present in the cluster after Ingress-to-Route translation. This update also adds another alert that notifies the cluster administrator about an Ingress objects that do not specify an `IngressClass`. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1962502[*BZ#1962502*])
```

> * Previously, a cluster that was upgraded from a version of {product-title} earlier than 4.8 could have orphaned `Route` objects. This is caused by earlier versions of {product-title} translating `Ingress` objects into `Route` objects irrespective of a given `Ingress` object's indicated `IngressClass`. With this update, an alert is sent to the cluster administrator about any orphaned Route objects still present in the cluster after Ingress-to-Route translation. This update also adds another alert that notifies the cluster administrator about any Ingress objects that do not specify an `IngressClass`. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1962502[*BZ#1962502*])

Reviewer 3: s/This is caused by/This was caused by ??

> * Previously, if a `configmap` that the router deployment depends on is not created, then the router deployment does not progress. With this update, the cluster Operator reports `ingress progressing=true` if the default ingress controller deployment is progressing. This results in users debugging issues with the ingress controller by using the command `oc get co`. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2066560[*BZ#2066560*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, if a `configmap` that the router deployment depends on is not created, then the router deployment does not progress. With this update, the cluster operator reports a `Progressing=true` message if the default Ingress Controller deployment is progressing. As a result, when users issue the `oc get` command on the default Ingress Controller, the new message provides more clarity for debugging purposes. (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2066560[*BZ#2066560*])
```

> * Previously, CoreDNS was based on kubernetes 1.24 while {product-title} 4.12 is based on kubernetes 1.25. With this update, CoreDNS is v1.10.0, new features have been added, and {product-title} 4.12 uses kubernetes 1.25 APIs. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1731[*OCPBUGS-1731*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, CoreDNS has been updated to version 1.10.0 which is based on Kubernetes 1.25. This keeps both the CoreDNS version and {product-title} {product-version}, which is also based on Kubernetes 1.25, in alignment with one another. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1731[*OCPBUGS-1731*])
```

> * With this update, CoreDNS has been updated to version 1.10.0 which is based on Kubernetes 1.25. This keeps both the CoreDNS version and {product-title} {product-version}, which is also based on Kubernetes 1.25, in alignment with one another. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1731[*OCPBUGS-1731*])

Reviewer 3: s/1.10.0 which/1.10.0, which

> * Previously, routers used GO kubernetes libraries that were based on kubernetes 1.24 while {product-title} 4.12 is based on kubernetes 1.25. With this update, GO kubernetes API is v1.25.2, which aligns the router with {product-title} 4.12 that uses kubernetes 1.25 APIs. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1730[*OCPBUGS-1730*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the {product-title} router now uses `k8s.io/client-go` version 1.25.2, which supports Kubernetes 1.25. This keeps both the `openshift-router` and {product-title} {product-version}, which is also based on Kubernetes 1.25, in alignment with one another. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1730[*OCPBUGS-1730*])
```

> * Previously, the Cluster Ingress Operator used GO kubernetes libraries that were based on kubernetes 1.24 while {product-title} 4.12 is based on kubernetes 1.25. With this update, GO kubernetes API is v1.25.2, which aligns the Cluster Ingress Operator with {product-title} 4.12 that uses kubernetes 1.25 APIs. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1554[*OCPBUGS-1554*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* With this update, the Ingress Operator now uses `k8s.io/client-go` version 1.25.2, which supports Kubernetes 1.25. This keeps both the Ingress Operator and {product-title} {product-version}, which is also based on Kubernetes 1.25, in alignment with one another. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1554[*OCPBUGS-1554*])
```

> * Previously, the Cluster DNS Operator did not reconcile the `openshift-dns` namespace, which is a requirement for {product-title} 4.12 to have pod-security labels. With this update, the Cluster DNS Operator reconciles the `openshift-dns` namespace and the pod security labels are correct ensuring that pods startup with no problems.  (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1549[*OCPBUGS-1549*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the DNS Operator did not reconcile the `openshift-dns` namespace. Because {product-title} {product-version} requires the `openshift-dns` namespace to have pod-security labels, this caused the namespace to be missing those labels upon cluster update. Without the pod-security labels, the pods failed to start. With this update, the DNS Operator now reconciles the `openshift-dns` namespace, and the pod-security labels are now present. As a result, pods start up as expected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-1549[*OCPBUGS-1549*])
```

> *Previously, the `ingresscontroller.spec.tuniningOptions.reloadInterval` did not support decimal points as valid for `reloadInterval`. This caused an `ingress-controller` to become invalid and unable to be deleted. With this update, `ingresscontroller.spec.tuningOptions.reloadInterval` supports decimals and users can delete ingress controllers with previously unsupported time units. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-236[*OCPBUGS-236*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the `ingresscontroller.spec.tuniningOptions.reloadInterval` did not support decimal points as valid for `reloadInterval`. This caused an `ingress-controller` to become invalid and unable to be deleted. With this update, `ingresscontroller.spec.tuningOptions.reloadInterval` supports decimals and users can delete ingress controllers with previously unsupported time units. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-236[*OCPBUGS-236*])
```

> *Previously, the `ingresscontroller.spec.tuniningOptions.reloadInterval` did not support decimal points as valid for `reloadInterval`. This caused an `ingress-controller` to become invalid and unable to be deleted. With this update, `ingresscontroller.spec.tuningOptions.reloadInterval` supports decimals and users can delete ingress controllers with previously unsupported time units. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-236[*OCPBUGS-236*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, the `ingresscontroller.spec.tuniningOptions.reloadInterval` did not support decimal numerals as valid parameter values because the Ingress Operator internally converts the specified value into milliseconds which was not a supported time unit. This prevented an Ingress Controller from being deleted. With this update, `ingresscontroller.spec.tuningOptions.reloadInterval` now supports decimal numerals and users can delete Ingress Controllers with `reloadInterval` parameter values which were previously unsupported. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-236[*OCPBUGS-236*])
```

> * Previously, the `ingresscontroller.spec.tuniningOptions.reloadInterval` did not support decimal numerals as valid parameter values because the Ingress Operator internally converts the specified value into milliseconds which was not a supported time unit. This prevented an Ingress Controller from being deleted. With this update, `ingresscontroller.spec.tuningOptions.reloadInterval` now supports decimal numerals and users can delete Ingress Controllers with `reloadInterval` parameter values which were previously unsupported. (link: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-236[*OCPBUGS-236*])

Reviewer 3: s/milliseconds which/milliseconds, which
